# A-Tribe-Called-Quest-Analysis
Analysis of messages portrayed through the music by the hip hop group, A Tribe Called Quest.
I analyzed all of the songs in all of the major albums by the hip hop group, A Tribe Called Quest. The unit of analysis is all of the songs in A Tribe Called Quest's discography and I collected 91 observations. I gathered the data by first ordering all of the songs that I would be analyzing from 1 to 91. I used a random number generator to pick which songs to analyze. After picking each song, I listened to it and closely read the lyrics to measure my variables. The four concepts that I measured were discussion of race, ethnicity, and/or culture within the lyrics, discussion of poverty and/or class inequalities within the lyrics, mood of the instrumentals, and message expressed through the lyrics. 
Variable 1: Discussion of race, ethnicity, and/or culture within the lyrics. The concept that is shown through this variable is the expression and representation of race/ethnicity/culture through music. I measured this concept by counting the number of times that race/ethnicity/culture were mentioned within the lyrics of each song. I used a scale from 0 to 10, with 0 being "not mentioned at all" and 10 being "mentioned 10 or more times". I decided to use this method to measure the concept because I thought it would be the most simple and straightforward way to see the emphasis on the subjects by the artists. By measuring the amount of times that these subjects were mentioned in each song, I was able to see how much the artist's emphasize the concept in their music. 
Variable 2: Discussion of poverty and/or class inequalities within the lyrics. The concept that is shown through this variable is expression of the struggles of poverty and class inequalities through music. I measured this concept by counting the number of times that poverty/class were mentioned within the lyrics of each song. I used a scale from 0 to 10, with 0 being "not mentioned at all" and 10 being "mentioned 10 or more times". I decided to use this method to measure the concept because I thought it would be the most simple and straightforward way to see the emphasis on the subjects by the artist's. By measuring the amount of times that these subjects were mentioned in each song, I was able to see how much the artist's emphasize the concept in their music. 
Variable 3: Mood of the instrumentals. The concept that is shown through this variable is self-expression and feelings portrayed through the sound of music. I measured this concept by attaching a descriptive characteristic to how the instrumentals of each song sounded and how the sound impacted the feeling of the song. I gathered seven options of characteristics to assign to the songs based on common sounds used by the artist, along with common sounds used by other music, in order to have enough options for every song to fall into a category. I used a non-ordinal list consisting of 1-mellow, 2-upbeat, 3-funky/jazz, 4-depressing, 5-hypnotic, 6-alternative, 7-other. I determined the category for each song by actively listening to the music and identifying the sounds that characterized each category. I decided to use this method to measure the concept because I felt that I could identify the mood of the instrumentals by using a listener perspective of how it makes the listener feel based on the sounds used. By characterizing the mood of the instrumentals I was able to feel the expression of the artists through the music.
Variable 4: Message expressed through the lyrics. The concept that is shown through this variable is love, peace, and positivy expressed through lyrics. I measured this concept by attaching a descriptive characteristic that summarized the main concept/message of each song, based on the lyrics to entire song. I gathered seven options of characteristics to assign to the songs based on common concepts used by the artists, along with common concepts used by other music, in order to have enough options for every song to fall into a category. I used a non-ordinal list consisting of 1-Love/peace/psychological concepts/world issues/culture, 2-Violence/sex/drugs, 3-Sadness/ isolation/negativity, 4-Positivity/ sense of self/self-confidence/elevation, 5-Hip hop/ MCing/ brotherhood, 6-Women/relationships, 7-Other. I determined the category for each song by closely reading the lyrics and identifying the main concept that was portrayed by the whole of the lyrics. I decided to use this method to measure the concept because I felt that by characterizing the overall message of each song, I could measure how many songs were about positive concepts and how many spread negative messages. By characterizing the overall message of the song based on the lyrics, I was able to see how much emphasis the artists placed on spreading love and positivity. 

